Alex Sanciangco
704050064

I was unable to get the RSat program to work properly. I tried downloading every Platform type for every version release, but none worked. Most would build, but the common error was with the "SatElite" executable file; either the program couldn't find it (even after I tried renaming paths and moving it to more convenient locations) or it wouldn't run it (the common error was "cannot execute binary file" even after performing chmod +x on the file). I even tried compiling the source files from version 2.02, but still could not get the program to work properly. 

Since I couldn't get the program working properly, I will try to just answer the remaining questions to the best of my ability.

(Regarding the 7-node graph with 3 colors)
Is the instance satisfiable?

No. Intuititvely looking at the graph, one can determine that a 3 color assignment to this graph isn't possible. Assuming the colors are A, B, and C, node 1 will receive color A, meaning 5 and 7 will have to get B while 6 and 2 get C (only way to assign colors without violating constraints.) This now forces both 4 and 3 to receive color A, which violiates the constraints.


(Regrading the 7-node graph with 4 colors)
Is the instance satisfiable?

Yes! The previously described scenario could've been solved had their been on additional color: do the color assignments as stated, except color node 3 with color D. Now all the constraints have been satisfied.


(Regarding the 7-node graph)
What do the answers of these two SAT instances tell you about the graph coloring problem of the above graph? Can you give a solution (a coloring) to the graph coloring problem of the above graph based on the results of RSat?

The answers tell us that the graph can satisfy the graph coloring problem if we are given AT LEAST 4 different colors. This can possible correspond to the fact that all of the of nodes in the graph have 4 edges, save for 2 of them that have 3. A possible solution to the graph coloring problem is given in the second answer (Regrading the 7-node graph with 4 colors). It follows logically that if a graph can satisfy the graph coloring problem for n colors, it can satisfy it for n + 1 colors, as n -> infinity. 


What is the minimum number of colors required to properly color this graph?

As stated before, the minimum number of colors needed to color this graph is 4.  